the the skill you're talking about with
sitting and clicking like this is not
even the same as the skill of aiming and
shooting a ball through the hoop right
it's also not the same as holding a gun
and pulling the trigger and you're
utterly refusing to engage in an
opportunity cost analysis and what you
have to recognize is even when you have
these measurable outcomes for video
games supposedly giving you skills and
the ability to focus on problem solving
what is the type of skill you're
developing what is the type of problem
you're learning to focus on you're only
learning to focus on video games that's
the tragedy of it and as they say that's
even true of this program I have on this
phone where this this is not helping me
to actually go and face-to-face in real
time verbally communicate with a Chinese
person it's also not helping me to sit
with a abrupt pen a paintbrush and write
out Chinese they're all kind things
that's not training before it's only
training me to sit down and write that
one exam right there is a vast gap
between this this world of simulated
diversions the so called skills the so
called problem-solving you're learning
to engage in there and any possible
meaningful application of
problem-solving in your real life if you
don't believe me if you're really
skeptical if you really believe that no
you're building up amazing hand-eye
coordination through video games have
you ever [ __ ] heard about an Olympic
champion who becomes the world's
greatest state archery saying yeah you
know what really helped me playing video
games that's what helped me build up my
skills an archer have you ever heard a
basketball player say anything like that
have you ever heard any person who
accomplished anything in any form of
skill that requires hand-eye
coordination thinking video games for
helping them have you ever heard about a
boyfriend or girlfriend who worked
through their problems who had problem
solving in the relationship face-to-face
emotionally intense difficult
problem-solving say you know it sure is
a good thing I spent 10 years of my life
playing video games for three hours a
day seven days a week because that
really helped me to be able to sit down
with my girlfriend face-to-face and work
this out and solve this problem do you
ever hear anyone in business management
say yeah the problems I deal with as a
business manager it sure is a good thing
I spent 10 years of my life playing
video games to 3 hours a day cuz now I'm
so skilled and focusing my mind hearing
people's problems gathering the data
engaging in an analysis getting out
there and solving problems no you never
hear that because the anecdotal evidence
reflects the banality of the scientific
claim that's being made here playing
video games trains you in absolutely no
skill other than wasting your time
playing video games we live in a world
where more and more of what we can
possibly know more and more of what we
can prove with a footnote to a
peer-reviewed reference derives from the
world of rather silly short-term
self-serving social science research
social science research projects that
are set up largely to generate more
master's degrees and PhD theses and to
have kind of reliable predictable
outcomes that more or less confirm
something we knew through common sense
knowledge or intuition anyway there was
a study I can't give you the footnote
there was a study trust me on this there
was a study examining whether or not
people could learn to accurately shoot a
basketball hoop you know throw a
basketball through the hoop whether they
could learn to shoot hoops as we say
without without actually using a
basketball in a hoop like whether or not
you could give people lectures and show
them a diagram on the chalkboard and
talk them through like the theory and
the physics and that they could improve
their ability to use a basketball
compared to people learning empirically
hands-on now there were various
conclusions in that study it's not
completely
worthless the slightly silly world of
research projects that are set up
because it's like well we need something
where we can do all the research within
about three months we can get government
funding we can give a bunch of people
master's degrees for there are certain
institutional constraints that keep
generating these types of findings these
types of investigations and you know
this is added to the corpus of evidence
that you know you can't learn how to
shoot hoops you can't learn how to do
well in basketball without actually
handing the panelling a basketball no
they actually did also prove that you
learn more rapidly if you have the book
learning also like empirical experience
alone without a coach talking you
through the theory and showing you on a
chalkboard how it works it's less
efficient than having both but they
tested all this at separate groups
people who just had empirical experience
people who had both theory and hands-on
experience and people with the hands-on
experience in the theory so you can
imagine there's an ever-growing corpus
of evidence that the problem with IQ
tests the problem with written exams is
not that they don't test your ability
but that they only test your ability to
write that kind of exam so likewise the
type of skills you build up in playing a
video game those are skills that are
really only useful for playing video
games or even for playing that one genre
of video games and on some level we
intuitively know this we taught that
it's hard to switch from one video game
to another and we know that playing a
video game about surviving in the woods
doesn't prepare you to actually survive
in the woods
we know that playing a video game that
simulates basketball does not improve
your ability to play basketball in any
way you don't gain the the manual skills
or understanding or depth perception or
timing to actually shoot hoops by
sitting on a couch holding a controller
so the type of email I get defending
video games what it ends up defending
instead is the very narrow use of
testing and testing that just barely
resembles a video game so this this is
what you could call a video game that's
on my cell phone you could call this a
game in reality what this
is a simulated exam so you could eat
this is a game there's there's a
multiple-choice test it tells you a word
in Chinese and you have to select the
correct characters for it now this game
or this test on my phone is meant to
directly mimic a system of examinations
created and defined by the government of
China it's called the HSK exam system so
each each game you're playing there
trains you to be able to sit down and
write an exam and the actual exam is
done sitting at a computer terminal it's
not on paper to my knowledge they do it
now completely digitally so you pay you
pay like three hundred dollars it's
quite expensive you sit down at a
computer terminal and it presents you
with basically exactly the same
interface here's the question multiple
choice answer so on and so forth the
problem this relates directly to the
inadequacy of the IQ test and measuring
intelligence and the inadequacy of video
games in preparing you for real-world
challenges so on and so forth the
problem is I could spend the time
mastering that game mastering that video
game I could spend the time mastering
how to do well on that exam and my
ability to understand that word when I
actually hear it spoken to me in Chinese
is zero now admittedly Chinese is an
extraordinarily difficult language I
wouldn't even say that about Italian
probably if you learn Italian this way
it's pretty easy to take take the
information you're looking up like the
real life but Chinese the gap between
knowledge of Chinese on paper doing well
with Chinese on exam and being able to
actually write an essay in Chinese write
an article in Chinese or have listening
comprehension or in a split second to
hear what somebody says understand it
and respond in verbal Chinese it's a
huge gap and likewise there is a huge
gap between understanding how to score
points in basketball from what's written
on a chalkboard and actually have the
tactile experience in real life with all
the distractions and all the people
around you ok so I received sort of two
passionate sets of hate mail or fan mail
from people trying to defend video games
one defense that I think we can deal
with pretty briefly and in principle I
have the same response to both of them
but this background that this background
is important to the problem the
background being that if you want to
test someone's ability in something you
need the test to mimic the actual action
the actual responsibility the actual job
as closely as possible all right this
has been found through academic research
and a lot of it is through the trial and
error of government's decisions like
there was a time when people thought you
could use the IQ test you can use
general tests of intelligence to figure
out who would be good at being a
firefighter like you can hire people for
the fire department on the basis of
giving them an exam that it may actually
be the IQ test or something similar they
invented right like here's basically a
kind of watered-down IQ test plus some
questions about what's the correct way
to assemble a hose get the hose and pump
water through it maybe there are some
questions written and you know what
that's a terrible test it works really
badly it completely fails to select
people who'd be good for the job if you
want to know who's gonna be a good
firefighter you have to set up a test
that actually very directly mimics the
conditions of putting out a fire as
closely as possible the same way I mean
you could imagine if you if you set up a
test for who would be a good basketball
player you basically want to have a
series of a set up an obstacle course
that very closely resembles the actual
actions the actual job that you're
testing their ability to do so this has
been seen you know kind of across the
board this has been seen in many many
fields including fields that involve
paper and pencil but were nevertheless
standardized testing may utterly fail to
show may not really fail to reflect
capture who is really good at doing this
job that involves paper or pencil so
this is a this is a kind of time bomb
for the Western education system because
in many cases we have systems of
examination
setup that in no way resembled and being
result in people training themselves
like this application of my phone you
show you training themselves to have a
skill set that only very obliquely
relates to the kind of capability or
ability you're supposedly trained for so
one person wrote in to me saying that
the playing of video games can be
justified or should be justified because
it can inspire people to take more of an
interest in history okay so let's let's
concede this point somebody can play a
video game for three hours a day seven
days a week and because they play that
video game they develop an interest in
ancient Rome ancient Greece World War
two
maybe medieval China all these things
maybe medieval Japan samurai fighting in
Japan these are all historical settings
that exist in video games right okay and
again I'm not using an extreme case of
video game addiction in the 21st century
most people seem to think that playing a
video game for three hours a day they
think that's not an addiction they think
that's not you know like it's not the
same as someone playing for twelve hours
a day you know I bet okay so I concede
the point you can be inspired you can
develop an interest in history from
playing a viewing but the error you're
making here twofold one what I've
already mentioned that the type of
ability you're developing remains still
clicking on a controller to try to get
that response get that outcome whatever
it is in the particular game it may be a
puzzle game it may be an action game and
be a strategy may be a fighting game
okay look you don't learn how to survive
in a real world fistfight by playing a
video game that simulates people
punching each other in the face you just
don't you don't build up those skills at
all now conversely you can look at
flight simulators that are actually used
in the industry to train people to fly
up airplane and then you get into these
issues where they are trying to mimic
the real-world activity of flying an
airplane and guess what it's not fun
it's not a game anymore it's not
entertaining
it's just a flight simulator and I
believe there are actually four training
people with accuracy with a gun they're
also shooting simulators I heard about
that in the news many many years ago
that the military and police in some
places they use a sort of very boring
very accurate video game to help people
train using using or using a revolver or
using a rifle accurately where they're
sure to get something right so the point
is again not that that's impossible but
that is not what people are doing three
hours a day they are not developing
useful skills and then secondly you're
engaging in a kind of subtle form of
fallacious reasoning because you're not
considering the opportunity cost right a
video game you claim the person who
wrote in to me claimed can cultivate
your interest in world history how
effective a use of your time as that
three hours a day seven days a week
compared to just watching history
documentaries TV documentaries
made-for-tv documentary films about the
same period of history for three hours a
day seven days a week I honestly think I
can rest my case and appeal to the
common sense of the audience the the
quantity of learning you would gain if
you seriously set him you would have to
watch every single documentary that has
ever been made about ancient Rome in
ancient Greece but just sitting and
watching TV on nonfiction TV educational
TV on that one topic three hours day
seven days a week you would with time
gained a massive if very shallow
knowledge of that history probably very
repetitious also we did encounter some
of the same facts again okay so the
educational value you're claiming for
playing a video game this way if we're
not even comparing this to hitting the
books and studying in an assiduous way
we're not comparing this to getting a
master's degree which may indeed most
people getting MAS and PhDs I don't
think they even study for three hours a
day seven days a week I really don't
have known a lot of those people it's
very rare for them to hit the books that
much but okay we're not comparing this
to getting a master's degree we're not
comparing this to even studying and
your own essay on the topic but just
compared to the passive entertainment of
watching documentary films I think the
other side the art has to throw in the
towel and say yes even if we're arguing
that video games have more than zero
educational content these video games
we're talking about it's so close to
zero it can't even be compared to
watching a documentary again when I say
these video games we're talking about
you know I mean blockbuster Triple A
titles I mean Nintendo switch
PlayStation Xbox I don't mean a police
simulator a flight simulator or shooting
simulator I don't mean the type of
incredibly boring game I just showed you
on my phone here no which is really just
an examination transferred into a game
of fide format okay
so had another guy write in to me and
he's engaged in the same form of
fallacious reasoning where he tries to
claim that playing video games all right
I think they're both three claims here
one that it improves your hand-eye
coordination and he has a link and it's
not to real science it's not to
peer-reviewed studies it's to some
[ __ ] news website saying no some
people say you can improve your hand-eye
coordination
okay so the claim that it improves your
hand-eye coordination the claim that it
improves your ability to focus on like
problem problem solving or focus on a
task on a difficult task these sorts of
claims that there's a redeeming quality
to sitting and playing video games for
three hours you are not preparing
yourself to actually score points in
basketball right that is a different set
of hand-eye coordination reflexes right
look if you're going to make the claim
that you improve your dexterity your
manual skills right the the skill you're
talking about with sitting and clicking
like this is not even the same as the
skill of aiming and shooting a ball
through the hoop right it's also not the
same as holding a gun and pulling the
trigger and you're utterly refusing to
engage in an opportunity cost analysis
sort to me this guy writing in that's
why you sound like an idiot it's you
can't discuss playing video games as if
the alternative is just to not exist for
those three hours if you spent the
three hours instead practicing
knife-throwing I'm from Canada there are
still guys who really practice
knife-throwing in Canada you know you
take a hunting knife clip to throw it
there were guys in Canada who will boast
that they defended themselves against a
bear attacking them through their knife
throwing skills okay if you practice
knife throwing I mean if you go hunting
fishing boating kayaking I mean almost
any activity you can imagine will
develop hand-eye coordination but beyond
this what if you intentionally designed
a program of activity because your goal
was to increase your hand-eye
coordination you wouldn't you wouldn't
want to be increasing this wouldn't be
this form of hand-eye coordination
sitting and pressing a button no if you
were actually trying to train yourself
with the same amount of time and then
you compare the efficacy of that to
video games you would have an
unbelievably dramatic contrast it would
be a far more extreme contrast and
outcomes than comparing the casual
watching of documentaries about the
history of ancient Rome to playing a
video game that happens to be set in
ancient Rome right so the value of
playing a video game for your alleged
development of your attention span your
hand-eye coordination we can't compare
that to nothing it's a oh look it is
more than zero impact on their ability
to so problems need hand-eye
coordination
how about baking how about knitting
how about sewing okay do you have
experience stitching
do you experience weaving fabric alright
if you do that for three hours a day
that kind of that kind of work you don't
think you develop your acumen you don't
like you develop hand-eye coordination
you know and again it's a it's a
different set of skills your ability to
actually sew something okay if it mean
if you compare video games to almost any
activity that would improve you know
your your ability to focus on a problem
solve a problem and your ability of
hand-eye coordination it is going to
pale in comparison this is a refusal to
do that you're evaluating the video game
is having more than zero value with no
kind of real-world reference to some
other viable possible outcome and above
all else you are
to compare it to someone who has an
ambition to actually accomplish
something in the given area whether its
history or hand-eye coordination like do
you want to be a champion at throwing
darts do you want to be a champion at
bowling you know do you want to be a
champion of throwing a javelin these are
all different forms of hand-eye
coordination do you actually want to be
decent at aiming and firing a bow and
arrow or something what is it you want
to train and someone who's then
seriously and assiduously training for
that ability there is no comparison here
to the hand-eye coordination you are
so-called scientific study establishes
of someone sitting and staring at a
street screen and doing this timing
their ability to move their thumbs back
and forth to make up make something blow
up on screen well what evidence do you
want to appeal to here the outcomes
ultimately are going to be non
comparable because the skill you're
developing again as I said earlier about
the nature of intelligence tests it will
only be applicable to a scenario that's
closely comparable to it so if you want
to train yourself to be able to throw
basketball hoops if you want to train
yourself to be a firefighter or to be a
soldier
you need to work through simulated
scenarios that closely resemble that if
you want to train yourself to be a
scholar and an author who writes books
about history you've got to do
activities that closely resemble that
work you've got to build yourself up to
writing your first book about history by
researching and writing shorter essays
on specific topics you can imagine the
way in which you build up the acumen to
do that and what you have to recognize
is even when you have these measurable
outcomes for video games supposedly
giving you skills and the ability to
focus on problem solving what is the
type of skill you're developing what is
the type of problem you're learning to
focus on you're only learning to focus
on video games that's the tragedy of it
and as they say that's even true of this
program I have on this phone with this
this is not helping me to actually go
and face-to-face in real time verbally
communicate with the Chinese person it's
also not helping me to sit with a brush
a pen a paintbrush and write out Chinese
they're all kind things
not training before it's only training
me to sit down and write that one exam
right there is a vast gap between this
this world of simulated diversions the
so-called skills the so-called
problem-solving you're learning to
engage in there and any possible
meaningful application of
problem-solving in your real life if you
don't believe me if you're really
skeptical if you really believe that no
you're building up amazing hand-eye
coordination through video games have
you ever [ __ ] heard about an Olympic
champion who becomes the world's
greatest state archery saying yeah you
know what really helped me playing video
games that's what helped me build up my
skills an archer have you ever heard a
basketball player say anything like that
have you ever heard any person who
accomplished anything in any form of
skill that requires hand-eye
coordination thinking video games or
helping them have you ever heard about a
boyfriend or girlfriend who worked
through their problems who had problem
solving in the relationship face-to-face
emotionally intense difficult
problem-solving say you know it sure is
a good thing
I spent 10 years of my life playing
video games for three hours a day seven
days a week because that really helped
me to be able to sit down with my
girlfriend face-to-face and work this
out and solve this problem do you ever
hear anyone in Business Management say
yeah the problems I deal with as a
business manager it sure is a good thing
I spent 10 years of my life playing
video games two three hours a day cuz
now I'm so skilled and focusing my mind
here in people's problems gathering the
data engaging in an analysis getting out
there and solving problems
no you never hear that because the
anecdotal evidence reflects the banality
of the scientific claim that's being
made here playing video games trains you
in absolutely no skill other than
wasting your time playing video games
people like to disrespect my truth but
the fact is that you know my name is I
don't know you